README.md, before:


# BODY MASS INDEX

![97A899F9-14EC-4867-9A13-A865DCEE3BAB_1_201_a](https://github.com/Mr-KulwinderSingh/body-mass-index/assets/124357266/e55b5180-cc6f-4294-88a7-324cd085ca22)


Body Mass Index in short BMI is a Python terminal calculator which takes the user's information and, calculates their BMI as per their weight and height. It also identifies if their provided details are valid and at the end it informs the user if their weight is good as per the BMI or if they are overweight.
It is very clearly and simply designed software which is compatible to work on Heroku app.

here is live version of the [BODY MASS INDEX](https://body-mass-index.herokuapp.com/)
<br>

# How does it work:
It is very easy to use and understand, a userfiendly design where you just have to enter your details (Name, Age, Weight and Height) if any of the provided detail is incorrect it will warn you and give you a chance to try again to enter your details. Finally if all the details are correct and valid it will then calculate the BMI and print the results with a very brief message saying "Your weight is good as per bmi calculations" or "Sorry your weight it a bit high". The app does not store user's data or any other information and can be used multiple times. At the end it ask user's if he/she wants to continue using or end the programme.

<br>


# Contents
* [**User Experience**](<#user-experience>)
    * [User Stories](<#user-stories>)
    * [Existing Features](<#existing-features>)
    * [Flow Chart](<#flow-charts>)
    * [Testing](#testing)
        * [Typography](#typography)
        * [Colour Choices](#colour-choices)
* [**The Quiz**](<#the-quiz>)

# User Experience #

## User Stories ##
- As a user I would like to have an easy to use interface with clear instructions which Body Mass Index has.
- As a user, I would like not like to save my details in their database and I am happy that BMI doesn't save.
- As a user, I am curious to know if I am in the good BMI range or not, it gives a reason to eat healthy and not to be overweight. 
- As a user, I am happy to use it multiple times.

<br>

## Existing Features ##

- Clear and simple design.
- Welcome page starts with the nice ASCII text format, written BODY MASS INDEX which clearly indicates what it is for.

![C2E636D4-F38B-4C2F-BD04-998C61C56040_1_201_a](https://github.com/Mr-KulwinderSingh/body-mass-index/assets/124357266/570ea795-2b7e-447c-a24d-f3ebbd1135c2)

- Very easy to use
- User-friendly.
- Easy instructions just follow the prompts.
- Easy to fix error by the user and try again.

![34A22751-CDD0-470B-9370-7E0787A58FDA_1_201_a](https://github.com/Mr-KulwinderSingh/body-mass-index/assets/124357266/8b136121-f423-42c0-a99d-e1bb0cf6cc33)


- Does not ask for private detail other than the basic body measurements, age & name. 
- Good BMI is presented with a nice green colour text message.
- Overweight is informed with a polite message but in red colour.
- Exception and rare statements to help extra-ordinary tall and heavy weight users.
- Limits and restrictions are in place.
<br>

## Flow Charts ##
The flow chart has been added and generated by [Lucid Chart](https://www.lucidchart.com). it shows the flow and process of the data going through the different stages and pass the validity test and criteria to reach the end and finally generate the result with a brief message. It also shows the revert stages and to get another chance to the user to try using the app again rather quitting.






## Testing ##
- All the known errors and bugs were removed (commonly known errors i.e blank spaces, blank lines, trailing spaces etc.). No serious error or bug was found when testing the code through [PEP8](https://pep8ci.herokuapp.com/) validator
- All the codes written are tested by [PEP8](https://pep8ci.herokuapp.com/) validator's link was provided by the [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net/ie/) 
-  A screenshot has been added.

<img width="1680" alt="Screenshot 2023-06-15 at 21 12 55" src="https://github.com/Mr-KulwinderSingh/body-mass-index/assets/124357266/e7fb5b91-02de-47ff-9545-ddc9eda8ae93">

### Typograghy ###
Although technically not typography, the font art I used within my project was imported using [art](https://pypi.org/project/art/). I wanted the main screen to stand out and this can be seen by all headings within the quiz game. 

![font](assets/readmeimages/title.png)

### Colour Choices ###
The colours I've chosen were inspired by the french flag. Mainly because when thinking of a standout group of colours for musical theatre, the french flag is such a prominant option due to the musical Les Miserables and it helps the screen pop out too. So I used the Linear gradient on [Gradient CSS](http://www.gradientcss.com/) to help me achieve this. 

![Gradient backdrop](assets/readmeimages/gradientcss.png)

I also replicated this in the font colour choices for the most part of the quiz. 

# The Quiz #

Commit message:

Update README.md file the Color scheme and pip install explanation for colorama

README.md, after:


# BODY MASS INDEX

![97A899F9-14EC-4867-9A13-A865DCEE3BAB_1_201_a](https://github.com/Mr-KulwinderSingh/body-mass-index/assets/124357266/e55b5180-cc6f-4294-88a7-324cd085ca22)


Body Mass Index in short BMI is a Python terminal calculator which takes the user's information and, calculates their BMI as per their weight and height. It also identifies if their provided details are valid and at the end it informs the user if their weight is good as per the BMI or if they are overweight.
It is very clearly and simply designed software which is compatible to work on Heroku app.

here is live version of the [BODY MASS INDEX](https://body-mass-index.herokuapp.com/)
<br>

# How does it work:
It is very easy to use and understand, a userfiendly design where you just have to enter your details (Name, Age, Weight and Height) if any of the provided detail is incorrect it will warn you and give you a chance to try again to enter your details. Finally if all the details are correct and valid it will then calculate the BMI and print the results with a very brief message saying "Your weight is good as per bmi calculations" or "Sorry your weight it a bit high". The app does not store user's data or any other information and can be used multiple times. At the end it ask user's if he/she wants to continue using or end the programme.

<br>


# Contents
* [**User Experience**](<#user-experience>)
    * [User Stories](<#user-stories>)
    * [Existing Features](<#existing-features>)
    * [Flow Chart](<#flow-charts>)
    * [Testing](#testing)
        * [Typography](#typography)
        * [Colour Choices](#colour-choices)
* [**The Quiz**](<#the-quiz>)

# User Experience #

## User Stories ##
- As a user I would like to have an easy to use interface with clear instructions which Body Mass Index has.
- As a user, I would like not like to save my details in their database and I am happy that BMI doesn't save.
- As a user, I am curious to know if I am in the good BMI range or not, it gives a reason to eat healthy and not to be overweight. 
- As a user, I am happy to use it multiple times.

<br>

## Existing Features ##

- Clear and simple design.
- Welcome page starts with the nice ASCII text format, written BODY MASS INDEX which clearly indicates what it is for.

![C2E636D4-F38B-4C2F-BD04-998C61C56040_1_201_a](https://github.com/Mr-KulwinderSingh/body-mass-index/assets/124357266/570ea795-2b7e-447c-a24d-f3ebbd1135c2)

- Very easy to use
- User-friendly.
- Easy instructions just follow the prompts.
- Easy to fix error by the user and try again.

![34A22751-CDD0-470B-9370-7E0787A58FDA_1_201_a](https://github.com/Mr-KulwinderSingh/body-mass-index/assets/124357266/8b136121-f423-42c0-a99d-e1bb0cf6cc33)


- Does not ask for private detail other than the basic body measurements, age & name. 
- Good BMI is presented with a nice green colour text message.
- Overweight is informed with a polite message but in red colour.
- Exception and rare statements to help extra-ordinary tall and heavy weight users.
- Limits and restrictions are in place.
<br>

## Flow Charts ##
The flow chart has been added and generated by [Lucid Chart](https://www.lucidchart.com). it shows the flow and process of the data going through the different stages and pass the validity test and criteria to reach the end and finally generate the result with a brief message. It also shows the revert stages and to get another chance to the user to try using the app again rather quitting.






## Testing ##
- All the known errors and bugs were removed (commonly known errors i.e blank spaces, blank lines, trailing spaces etc.). No serious error or bug was found when testing the code through [PEP8](https://pep8ci.herokuapp.com/) validator
- All the codes written are tested by [PEP8](https://pep8ci.herokuapp.com/) validator's link was provided by the [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net/ie/) 
-  A screenshot has been added.

<img width="1680" alt="Screenshot 2023-06-15 at 21 12 55" src="https://github.com/Mr-KulwinderSingh/body-mass-index/assets/124357266/e7fb5b91-02de-47ff-9545-ddc9eda8ae93">

### Typograghy ###
Although technically not typography, the font art I used within my project was imported using [art](https://pypi.org/project/art/). I wanted the main screen to stand out and this can be seen by all headings within the quiz game. 

![font](assets/readmeimages/title.png)

### Colour as per terminal and app ###
Multiple colours have not been used to keep the design of the app very simple and clear according to the mock terminal and app layout. Though there is text colour variation between the good BMI presentation and overweight with the different colour text messages. Only 2 colour codes have been used '\033[32m' and '\033[31m'  Colours have been taken from the Colorama module. This module is not a built-in module in Python, but it has been installed through the pip install method.

![Gradient backdrop](assets/readmeimages/gradientcss.png)

I also replicated this in the font colour choices for the most part of the quiz. 

# The Quiz #
